# Master-s-thesis
Mostly complete code, used for my Master's thesis "Embedding and Classification of Electrocardiogram(ECG) Spectrograms"

## Abstract
We have witnessed tremendous advancements in the field of neural networks and machine learning over the last decade. One of the most important areas, capable of utilizing this technology, being medicine and health care. Inspired by the growing research regarding Electrocardiogram (ECG) classification, we have set out to construct an embedding of ECG spectrograms, containing less than 1000 elements and capable of reaching more than 75% accuracy in a classification task. 

In order to achieve this goal, we used a part of Physionet's MIT-BIH Arrhythmia Database, containing labeled ECG spectrograms. We created 11 embeddings: 3 based on Principal Component Analysis (one of them also utilizing Linear Regression), 4 based on Singular Value Decomposition, 3 based on Nonnegative Matrix Decomposition and one based on a simple Autoencoder. We performed classifications using a simple Multi-Layered Perceptron, as well as Hidden Markov chain Models, on each of those embeddings. We also constructed a simple Convolutional Neural Network, which performed both the embedding and the classification. Then we compared the results: we managed to reach 86% accuracy with one of the embeddings based on Nonnegative Matrix Factorization and 85% accuracy using the Convolutional Neural Network. We also observed, that classification using Hidden Markov chain Models tended to yield accuracies lower by about 10 percentage points than those obtained with a Multi-Layered Perceptron, with the highest being 74% (utilizing the same embedding based on Nonnegative Matrix Factorization).
